GRED**

DPDK - The Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) is a set of data plane libraries and network interface controller drivers for fast packet processing. The DPDK framework creates a set of libraries for specific hardware/software environments through the creation of an Environment Abstraction Layer (EAL). The EAL hides the environment specifics and provides a standard programming interface to libraries, available hardware accelerators and other hardware and operating system (Linux, FreeBSD) elements. Once the EAL is created for a specific environment, developers link to the library to create their applications.
Active queue management (AQM) - In routers and switches, active queue management (AQM) is the policy of dropping packets inside a buffer associated with a network interface controller (NIC) before that buffer becomes full, often with the goal of reducing network congestion or improving end-to-end latency. This task is performed by the network scheduler, which for this purpose uses various algorithms such as random early detection (RED), Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN), or controlled delay (CoDel). Active queue disciplines drop or mark packets before the queue is full. Typically, they operate by maintaining one or more drop/mark probabilities, and probabilistically dropping or marking packets even when the queue is short.

RED - Random early detection (RED), also known as random early discard or random early drop is a queuing discipline for a network scheduler suited for congestion avoidance. In the conventional tail drop algorithm, a router or other network component buffers as many packets as it can, and simply drops the ones it cannot buffer. If buffers are constantly full, the network is congested. Tail drop distributes buffer space unfairly among traffic flows. Tail drop can also lead to TCP global synchronization as all TCP connections "hold back" simultaneously, and then step forward simultaneously. Networks become under-utilized and flooded—alternately, in waves. RED addresses these issues by pre-emptively dropping packets before the buffer becomes completely full. It uses predictive models to decide which packets to drop. RED monitors the average queue size and drops (or marks when used in conjunction with ECN) packets based on statistical probabilities. If the buffer is almost empty, then all incoming packets are accepted. As the queue grows, the probability for dropping an incoming packet grows too. When the buffer is full, the probability has reached 1 and all incoming packets are dropped.

GRED - GRED(Gentle Random Early Detection) was proposed as an AQM method that controls congestion at router buffers preliminary. GRED aims to solve some of RED’s problems. GRED was proposed as a variant of RED, in which GRED enhances the way of tuning some of RED’s parameters such as maxthreshold and Dmax(the maximum value of the initial packet dropping probability). Moreover, GRED maintains the aql(average queue length) value at a level on a router buffer which is between the minthreshold and maxthreshold positions,this level is named Taql(Target level for the aql). Maintaining aql value at Taql level avoids increasing the router buffer size to be above the maxthreshold position, and therefore smaller number of packets is dropped.

Week 1- Read the theory aspect behind the project: Random Early Detection (RED), Gentle Random Early Detection (GRED).



        RED:- https://sites.google.com/a/ncsu.edu/tail-drop-vs-red/plan-of-work/red-algorithm 

        GRED:- https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/8bbe/bb4c3b8b2316cf48c2e95fe5c15e176a56df.pdf (Performance Investigations of Some Active Queue Management Techniques Using Simulation)        
 
 
Week 2- Read about DPDK and it's applications. Also went through Active Queue Management and difference between this and             Passive Queue Management.

        Difference between AQM and PQM:- https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/dee0/fdae49ec31e318606c327fcd88fe600e02c8.pdf
        
        AQM:- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_queue_management 
              https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/1024256
        
        
Week 3- Installed DPDK(faced issues in configuring it properly and locating the setup.sh file). Ran l2fwd application.

        
        DPDK installation:- https://software.intel.com/en-us/videos/data-plane-development-dpdk-installation-guide
        
        l2fwd:- https://youtu.be/epdRtMPtuFY
        
        
Week 4- Tried running QoS Scheduler Sample Application. Got Error. Found out it is due to non availability of cores in               system.


        https://doc.dpdk.org/guides/sample_app_ug/qos_scheduler.html


Week 5- Converted RED to GRED by modifying code at lib/librte_sched/rte_red.c and lib/librte_sched/rte_red.h

Week 6- Cross checked the GRED code present in ns3 and the one we added in dpdk for the formula and implementation
